docs: write "what is autocomplete"? (#393)
algolia/autocomplete.js: packages/website/docs/introduction.md

title: What is Autocomplete?
---

> Autocomplete is an open-source, production-ready JavaScript library for building autocomplete experiences.

Reviewer: What does "production-ready" adds in this sentence? Isn't it implied?

Author: Hah, true. I'm taking from lingo we use in our own docs when describing our [API clients](https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-client/getting-started/what-is-the-api-client/javascript/?client=javascript), [IS libraries](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/building-search-ui/what-is-instantsearch/js/), [Netlify plug-in](https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/netlify-plugin/netlify-faq/#how-to-build-a-custom-user-interface), etc.

While implicitly understood, this explicitly states this is an officially supported, stable library.

That said, I'm not wedded to it. :)

Reviewer: That's fair!

A user types into an input, and the autocomplete "completes" their thought by providing full terms or results: this is the very base of an autocomplete experience.

> For example, try typing the letter "s" in the search box on the top right of this site. You can directly navigate to documentation on concepts like "**s**ources" and "**s**tate". If you continue typing, say "st", the results update. You see pages having to do with "**st**ate," "getting **st**arted," and "**st**atic sources."

Reviewer: Displaying search matches with both strong + underline might make it more obvious, wdyt?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6137112/104897977-58c2ac00-5979-11eb-8480-b793f0a42467.png)

```md
<strong><u>s</u></strong>
```

Author: https://github.com/algolia/autocomplete.js/pull/393/commits/23b7ad0ef64bd1fad40e57c58c3209868a5f82dc

You may have already used UIs powered by this Autocomplete library. The [Algolia](https://www.algolia.com/doc/), [React Native](https://reactnative.dev/), and other documentation websites are powered by this library and the [DocSearch](https://docsearch.algolia.com/) project. This library is flexible enough to power more than just documentation search though. **Its purpose is to help you build interactive and accessible autocomplete experiences, regardless of your use case.**

## What does this library provide?

Autocomplete is a JavaScript library that lets you quickly build autocomplete search experiences. You can use it to create an autocomplete UX if you have:

- Existing markup where you want to embed the experience,
- Data to fill the autocomplete dropdown with.

For example, if you have an element you want to embed an autocomplete experience into, you only need to configure it as the `container` in the [basic configuration options](/docs/basic-options). Then, once, you've configured the data to populate the autocomplete, the library creates and embeds the interactive DOM elements that make up the UX.

> The data that populates the autocomplete results are called [`sources`](/docs/sources). The library is agnostic as to what you use for your  [`sources`](/docs/sources).  They could be recent searches, a static set of searches terms, or from an external source, like an [Algolia](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/getting-started/what-is-algolia/) index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The data that populates the autocomplete results are called [`sources`](/docs/sources). You can use whatever you want in your sources: a static set of searches terms, search results from an external source like an [Algolia](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/getting-started/what-is-algolia/) index, recent searches, and much more.
```

> By configuring just those two required parameters (`container` and `getSources`) you can have an interactive autocomplete experience. **The library creates an input and provides the interactivity and accessibility attributes, but you're in full control of the DOM elements to output.**

Reviewer 2: This sentence clashes a bit with what is said earlier:

> Then, once, you've configured the data to populate the autocomplete, the library creates and embeds the interactive DOM elements that make up the UX.

vs.

> The library creates an input and provides the interactivity and accessibility attributes, but you're in full control of the DOM elements to output.

We don't understand if Autocomplete provides the DOM elements or not.

Author: True, I don't think the first sentence adds much, and it's nice to move from the bullet point on data straight to "The data that populates the autocomplete results are called [`sources`](/docs/sources)."

Removed `once, you've configured the data to populate the autocomplete, the library creates and embeds the interactive DOM elements that make up the UX.` here: https://github.com/algolia/autocomplete.js/pull/393/commits/196f7a2781cdb536601a7c914863f95d1f63b36c

You don't have to display just suggested search terms, you can display links for actual results themselves (rather than links to results pages) or even display "actions" that a user can take from within an autocomplete. For example, you could let your users turn dark mode on, directly from an autocomplete, if they begin to type "darkmode".

> You can display different data types (such as suggested search terms, product results, and actions) differently. The format of each datatype and layout is customizable and up to you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also display different data types (such as suggested search terms, product results, and actions) differently. The format of each data type and layout is customizable and up to you.
```

## What doesn't this library provide?

> This library isn't a set of components like [Algolia's InstantSearch libraries](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/building-search-ui/what-is-instantsearch/js/). You should have markup you want to plug the experience into and be able to provide the data that gets displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Contrary to [Algolia InstantSearch](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/building-search-ui/what-is-instantsearch/js/), Autocomplete doesn't provide a library of ready-made UI widgets. You're in control of the full rendering of your autocomplete experience, and the library provides everything you need to make it functional and accessible.

Also, you're in charge of providing the collection of items to display. You can easily plug Algolia results with the [`autocomplete-algolia-preset`](getAlgoliaHits) if you want, but you're free to use Autocomplete with any data sources you want.
```
